---
layout: post
title: Charred Corn Succotash
abbrlink: 48918af09d724003bdc62ebc16bb98a8
tags:
  - cook-time_average
  - category_side
  - category_dinner
  - season_summer
categories:
  - Recipes Final
date: 1759793905000
updated: 1760529119602
---

URL: <https://crossroadscommunityfarm.com/recipe/charred-corn-succotash-with-lime-crispy-onions/>

## Ingredients

- [ ] 4 large shallots, or 2 sweet onions
- [ ] juice of 2 limes
- [ ] &#x20;2 t dark-brown sugar
- [ ] &#x20;2 T fish sauce
- [ ] &#x20;1 C green beans, sliced on diagonal in 1 inch segments
- [ ] 4 ears corn, shucked
- [ ] 1 T neutral oil
- [ ] 2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
- [ ] 1 package cherry tomatoes, halved
- [ ] 1 T thickly slivered Thai or other basil leaves
- [ ] salt
- [ ] 1 green chile (optional)

## Instructions

Make the crispy onions. Heat 1/2 inch oil in your smallest skillet. Add 2 of the shallots (or 1 sweet) to the pan - trying to get them to 1-2 inch skinny pieces. Cook, stirring, until they are golden brown. Transfer to a plate with paper towels to drain. Then salt them.

Make the dressing by whisking together the lime juice, brown sugar, and fish sauce.

Make the salad:

Cook the green beans in a pot of salted water until crisp and just barely tender, about 2 minutes.

Over a hot grill or open gas-stove flame, char the ears of corn until most of the kernels are blackened. Wear oven mitts and be cautious. When cool, shave kernels off the cobs.

Cook shallots, garlic, and chile for 2 minutes in a large skillet until just softened. Add the corn, season with salt, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, just to soften the corn.

Turn off the heat, quickly stir in the green beans and tomatoes, and pour half the dressing over the top.

Pile on a plate, garnish with basil and crispy shallots.

Serve with remaining dressing on the side.
