---
layout: post
title: Caldo Verde
abbrlink: c50abb75b2c44370b24e06c60ec33ad6
tags:
  - cook-time_average
  - gluten-free
  - category_dinner
  - season_fall
  - season_winter
categories:
  - Recipes Final
date: 1759793905000
updated: 1760480126280
---

## Ingredients

- 1 pound kale or collard greens with the leaves cut into thin slices
- ½ pound linguiça cut into thin slices
- 1 yellow onion large, chopped
- 3 – 4 potatoes 1 – 1 ½ pounds, peeled and thinly sliced
- 3 – 4 garlic cloves minced
- 6 – 7 cups water vegetable
- ½ cup olive oil plus more for serving
- Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste

## Instructions

- Start by cutting the collard greens or kale. Stack the leaves, three at a time and roll them like a cigar. Cut crosswise into very, very thin strips. Set aside.
- In a skillet, over medium heat cook the sausage until lightly browned on both sides. Use a slotted spoon to remove the sausage to a plate. Reserve sausage flavored oil to flavor the soup.
- In a large pot over medium heat, warm 3 tablespoons of olive oil and cook onions until tender and translucent. Add garlic and cook for 2 more minutes.
- Stir in potatoes and add water or combination of water and broth and bring to a boil.
- Reduce the heat and let the soup simmer. Cook until the potatoes are tender, about 10- 20 minutes. Remove from heat and let them cool slightly.
- Add about half the sausage slices and fat to the soup
- Add the collard greens or kale, stir, and keep and cook for a few more minutes until the soup turns bright green. Don’t overcook as the greens should be slightly crunchy.
- Season with salt and pepper to taste
