---
layout: post
title: Chopped Salad with Feta, Lime and Mint
abbrlink: dd9d80aad3f74b559005cef18d3337e1
tags:
  - cook-time_average
  - gluten-free
  - category_dinner
  - season_summer
  - season_spring
  - cuisine_healthy
  - vegetarian
categories:
  - Recipes Final
date: 1759793905000
updated: 1761081489811
---

URL: <http://smittenkitchen.com/2012/06/chopped-salad-with-feta-lime-and-mint/>

I used 1 cup each of halved and thinly sliced radishes (3 1/4 ounces), 1/2 pound of lightly cooked, cooled green and yellow beans (1/2 pound fresh) that I’d cut into 1/4-inch slices on the bias, and quartered and thinly sliced Kirby cucumbers (from 5 ounces or 2 whole). However, you should use whatever is crunchy and you’re craving, such as peppers, carrots, lightly cooked corn cut off the cob, celery, fennel or more.

To bulk this up into a more rounded dish, you could add a cup or two of thinly sliced lettuce, 1 to 2 cups of cooked, cooled grains such as barely, quinoa or farro, or a cup or so of cooked black beans, to add to the Southwestern vibe. In each case, it would be best to double the dressing so you’ll be able to cover everything evenly.

Serves 4 as appetizers and 2 as more of a meal-sized salad

## Ingredients

- [ ] 3 cups chopped, crunchy vegetables
- [ ] 1/2 cup (2 ounces) crumbled feta, queso fresco or ricotta salata
- [ ] 2 scallions, thinly sliced
- [ ] 1/3 cup well-toasted sunflower seeds, salted or unsalted
- [ ] 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
- [ ] 2 tablespoons olive oil
- [ ] 1/4 teaspoon coarse or Kosher salt, plus more to taste
- [ ] 1/4 teaspoon chile powder or 1/8 teaspoon each your choice combination of chile powder, cumin, cayenne or sumac
- [ ] Freshly ground black pepper, to taste
- [ ] 1 to 2 tablespoons thinly sliced fresh mint leaves

## Instructions

Mix the vegetables, feta, scallions, seeds and mint in a medium bowl. Whisk lime juice, olive oil, salt, spice and black pepper in a small dish and pour over vegetables, tossing to evenly coat. Adjust with more salt or pepper as needed. Garnish with mint and crunch-crunch-crunch away!
